Blog Post: ZenNews (#154)
zenml-io/blog.zenml.io: _posts/2023-02-23-zennews-summarization.md

---
layout: post
author: "Baris Can Durak"
title: "ZenNews: Generate summarized news on a schedule"

> description: "A tool powered by ZenML that can automate the summarization of news sources and save users time and effort while providing them with the information they need.."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "ZenNews is a tool powered by ZenML that can automate the summarization of news sources and save you time and effort while providing you with the information you need."
```

category: zenml

> tags: tooling zenml summarization news

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tags: tooling zenml summarization news evergreen zenml-project nlp
```

> publish_date: February 23, 2023
> date: 2023-02-23T00:02:00Z

Reviewer: ```suggestion
publish_date: February 24, 2023
date: 2023-02-24T00:02:00Z
```
This (and the actual filename of the file) will need updating to whenever it gets published.

thumbnail: /assets/posts/zennews/zennews.jpeg
image:
  path: /assets/posts/zennews/zennews.jpeg
---

**Last updated:** February 23, 2023

> ![](/assets/posts/zennews/zennews.jpeg)
> *Image generated by [StableDiffusion 2.1](https://huggingface.co/stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2-1)*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![*Image generated by [StableDiffusion 2.1](https://huggingface.co/stabilityai/stable-diffusion-2-1)*](/assets/posts/zennews/zennews.jpeg)
```

I *think* this syntax should also work. This way we're also providing the image caption for accessibility.

In today's information age, we are bombarded with a constant stream of news 
and media from a variety of sources. Summarizing tasks, particularly when it 
comes to news sources, can be a powerful tool for the efficient consumption of 
information. They distill complex or lengthy content into easily 
digestible chunks that can be scanned and absorbed quickly, allowing us to 
keep up with the news without being overwhelmed. They can also help us separate 
the signal from the noise, highlighting the most important details and helping 
us identify what's worth further investigation. 

> ## What did we build: ZenNews

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What we built: ZenNews
```

> This is where **ZenNews** come into play. It offers a tool that uses 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is where **ZenNews** comes into play. It offers a tool that uses 
```

users time and effort while providing them with the information they need. 
This can be particularly valuable for busy professionals or anyone who wants 
to keep up with the news but doesn't have the time to read every article in 
full.

## Why did we build it?

Apart from the advantages of solving a summarization task itself, this 
project aims to showcase some key benefits of using ZenML.

1. **_ZenML features a simple and clean Python SDK._** In this project, we 
leverage it to define our [steps](https://github.com/zenml-io/zenml-projects/tree/main/zen-news-summarization/src/zennews/steps) 
and [pipelines](https://github.com/zenml-io/zenml-projects/blob/main/zen-news-summarization/src/zennews/pipelines/zen_news_pipeline.py) 
and to access/manage the resources and artifacts that we interact with along 
the way. This project shows how this such a design can significantly simplify 
the process of building robust applications.

2. **_ZenML is an extensible framework._** We realize that ML projects often 
require custom-tailored solutions that deviate from off-the-shelf offerings. 
This is why we employed base abstractions that empower users to craft their 

> solutions without needlessly reinventing the wheel. Take, for instance, [the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
solutions without needlessly reinventing the wheel. Take a look, for instance, at [the 
```

and [the custom stack component](https://github.com/zenml-io/zenml-projects/blob/main/zen-news-summarization/src/zennews/alerter/discord_alerter.py) 
showcased in this project to see how effortlessly one can implement custom 
solutions.

3. **_ZenML separates your code from your stack._** In other words, it offers a 
distinct separation between the code and the underlying infrastructure. As you 
explore this example, you'll notice how this separation can allow you to switch 
effortlessly between [a local default stack and a remote deployment with 
scheduled pipelines](https://github.com/zenml-io/zenml-projects/tree/main/zen-news-summarization#-switching-to-scheduled-pipelines-with-vertex), 
all with the simple flip of a flag. 

4. **_ZenML can help you to scale up._** While this PoC-like example serves as 
evidence of ZenML's potential to streamline workflows and hasten the development 
process, it merely scratches the surface of its capabilities. To delve deeper 
into the extensive possibilities that ZenML has to offer, we encourage you to 
check out our [docs](https://docs.zenml.io/getting-started/introduction).

## How does it work?

> The **ZenNews** project is designed as a 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **ZenNews** project is published as a 
```

Lastly, the package also includes a CLI application named `zennews`, which 
serves as the primary interface for interacting with the pipeline and its steps.

```bash
zennews --help 
```

# How do I use it?

Once you have installed the `zennews` package, you can immediately test it 
locally. By running the following command, you will retrieve the top five 
articles from the BBC news feed, summarize them, and display the results:

```bash
zennews bbc
```

As an output, you should see:

```bash
                 ______          _   _                   
                |___  /         | \ | |                  
                   / / ___ _ __ |  \| | _____      _____ 
                  / / / _ \ '_ \| . ` |/ _ \ \ /\ / / __|
                 / /_|  __/ | | | |\  |  __/\ V  V /\__ \
                /_____\___|_| |_|_| \_|\___| \_/\_/ |___/
                                                                               
                      This is where you get the news.
         
This will change your active ZenML stack to the default stack and run the 
pipeline locally. This also means that the pipeline will download and utilize 
the model locally.

> Would you like to continue? [y/N]: Y

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Would you like to continue? [y/N]: y
```

Confusing :)

║                  From BBC generated at 02/23/2023 15:15:40                  ║
╚═════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════╝

[top_stories] Spectrum News 13 reporter Dylan Lyons, 24, was killed in the 
attack. A photojournalist, Jesse Walden, was injured in the shooting. The 
girl's mother was also shot and is in a critical condition in hospital. The 
suspect, Keith Moses, 19, is also suspected of a murder in the area. Link                                                                                                                                  

[top_stories] The selfie was taken from the cockpit of a U-2 spy plane as 
military leaders tracked the high-altitude balloon's progress over the 
continental US. Beijing has maintained that the balloon was a weather   
ship blown off course. But Washington says the balloon is part of a sprawling 
Chinese intelligence collection programme. Link                                                                                            

[top_stories] Academy chief executive Bill Kramer says new unit has "run 
many scenarios" Will Smith slapped Chris Rock during the 2022 ceremony after 

> he made a joke about Jada Pinkett Smith's bald head. Link          

Reviewer: Maybe not the best example? Doesn't fully make sense in English...

[top_stories] Millions of young Nigerians have registered as first-time voters 
in Saturday's presidential election. Many are backing a third-party candidate 
to take on the country's two main political machines. Peter Obi of the Labour 
Party is considered an outlier because of his accessibility, simplicity and his 
record of prudence. Link                                                                                               

[top_stories] European Commission staff ordered to remove TikTok from phones 
and corporate devices. Commission says it is implementing the measure to 
"protect data and increase cybersecurity" TikTok has faced allegations that 
it harvests users' data and hands it to the Chinese government. Link  
```
You can also parameterize this process. In order to see the possible 
parameters, please use:

```bash
zennews bbc --help
```

To fully utilize the potential of an application like `zennews`, it's 
recommended to schedule the summarization pipelines instead of manually 
triggering them. This is possible by using `--schedule` if you have a ZenML 
stack which features an orchestrator that supports scheduling. 

```bash
zennews bbc --schedule daily
```

> If you would like to see, how you can set up such a stack, you can visit [the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you would like to see how you can set up such a stack, you can visit [the
```

> GitHub page](https://github.com/zenml-io/zenml-projects/tree/main/zen-news-summarization).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GitHub page](https://github.com/zenml-io/zenml-projects/tree/main/zen-news-summarization) which contains a much more substantial technical summary around implementation and how you can reproduce it on your local setup/system.
```
